Power Rangers Lightspeed Rescue is a television series and the eighth season of the Power Rangers franchise, based on the 23rd Super Sentai series Kyuukyuu Sentai GoGoFive (1999).Lightspeed Rescue had, for the first time, a Power Ranger with no Super Sentai counterpart in the Titanium Ranger, as there was no Titanium Ranger in GoGoFive, which makes it the first season to have an American-exclusive Ranger.


== Synopsis ==
The series takes place in the fictitious city of Mariner Bay, California, which was built on an ancient demon burial ground. When the demons were accidentally released from their tomb in the desert, they threaten to destroy Mariner Bay. Therefore, a government organization called Lightspeed, headed by Captain William Mitchell, recruits four civilians and his own daughter to defend the city as a new team of Power Rangers after Lightspeed successfully channels the source of their powers, the Morphin Grid. Each of the four civilians chosen had a special area of expertise: Carter Grayson, the Red Lightspeed Ranger, was a fire fighter in the local fire department; Chad Lee, the Blue Lightspeed Ranger, worked as a lifeguard and marine animal trainer at a local aquarium and a marine amusement park; Joel Rawlings, the Green Lightspeed Ranger, was a stunt pilot; Kelsey Winslow, the Yellow Lightspeed Ranger, was an extreme sports athlete; and Dana Mitchell, the Captain's daughter, who agreed to become the Pink Lightspeed Ranger, was a paramedic and practiced medical arts. The five Power Rangers were aided by a team of scientists and engineers led by Miss Angela Fairweather, and operated out of the Lightspeed Aquabase, an underwater military compound that also deters the hydrophobic demons from directly attacking the base.
The five Rangers would be joined by Captain Mitchell's long lost son, Ryan Mitchell, who would become the Titanium Ranger. Together, the six Rangers would prevail against the demon forces time after time, culminating in a final showdown where, in Power Rangers tradition, all of the Zords, the base, and much of the weapons and other equipment that was used by the Power Rangers over the series was destroyed.
In addition, Lightspeed Rescue featured a reunion reappearance of characters from Power Rangers Lost Galaxy, when the villainess Trakeena comes to Earth to destroy it and the Lightspeed Rangers team up with the Galaxy Rangers.


== Cast and characters ==
Lightspeed Rangers
Sean Cw Johnson as Carter Grayson, the Red Lightspeed Ranger
Michael Chaturantabut as Chad Lee, the Blue Lightspeed Ranger
Keith Robinson as Joel Rawlings, the Green Lightspeed Ranger
Sasha Williams as Kelsey Winslow, the Yellow Lightspeed Ranger
Alison MacInnis as Dana Mitchell, the Pink Lightspeed Ranger
Rhett Fisher as Ryan Mitchell, the Titanium RangerSupporting characters

Monica Louwerens as Ms. Angela Fairweather
Ron Roggé as Captain William MitchellVillains

Jennifer L. Yen as Vypra
Diane Salinger as the voice of Queen Bansheera
Neil Kaplan as the voice of Diabolico
Michael Forest as the voice of Prince Olympius
Brianne Siddall as the voice of Impus
David Lodge as the voice of Loki
Kim Strauss as the voice of JinxerGuest stars

Danny Slavin as Leo Corbett, Galaxy Red
Reggie Rolle as Damon Henderson, Galaxy Green
Archie Kao as Kai Chen, Galaxy Blue
Cerina Vincent as Maya, Galaxy Yellow
Valerie Vernon as Kendrix Morgan, Galaxy Pink
Jennifer Burns as Trakeena


== Video game ==

Several video games based on Power Rangers Lightspeed Rescue were also developed and available for Nintendo 64, Game Boy Color, PlayStation, and PC. The PlayStation and N64 versions were 3D beat-em up games, the Game Boy version was a 2D side-scrolling platformer, and the PC version was actually an activity center.


== Episodes ==


== International Releases ==
International releases were very limited to a few regions because most of them around the world would receive foreign language dubs of the Power Rangers adaptation, which is Power Rangers Lightspeed Rescue.
In Thailand, the series originally did not air on TV in favor of the Power Rangers series. However, it was released on home video with a Thai dub on VCD originally in the early 2000s, with Rose Media Entertainment being the distributor (formerly Rose Video). It later was sold on DVD by combining the VCD files onto the DVD release. Despite not airing on open broadcast TV, it did air on the Gang Cartoon Channel satellite television channel. 49 out of 50 episodes were dubbed and aired, but episode 44 was not dubbed.
In the Philippines, the series aired on RPN-9 (RPTV) in 2002 until 2003 with a Filipino dub.


== References ==


== External links ==

Official website
Power Rangers Lightspeed Rescue at the Wayback Machine (archived September 30, 2000) at Fox Kids
Power Rangers Lightspeed Rescue at IMDb