Power Rangers Turbo is a television series and the fifth season of the Power Rangers franchise. The show was prefaced with the franchise's second film, Turbo: A Power Rangers Movie. 
As with its predecessors, Power Rangers Turbo is based on one of the entries of the Super Sentai series; in Turbo's case, the source is the 20th series, Gekisou Sentai Carranger. The series introduced a child actor as the new Blue Ranger, and featured the departure of the long-running characters Zordon and Alpha 5, as well the veteran team of Rangers and introduced four new characters to take the place of the veteran Rangers. The fifth season also marked the final regular appearances of Johnny Yong Bosch, Catherine Sutherland, and Steve Cardenas, and also the last appearance of Nakia Burrise.


== Plot ==
After Maligore's defeat, the Turbo Power Rangers, Tommy Oliver, Adam Park, Tanya Sloan and Katherine Hillard graduate from high school, while the new 12-year-old Blue Ranger, Justin Stewart, skips ahead a couple of grades and gets to go to Angel Grove High. Seeking revenge, Divatox begins to attack the Rangers. At the beginning of the season, the Rangers’ longtime mentors, Zordon and Alpha 5 depart to return to Zordon's home planet of Eltar, making way for the spectral Dimitria of Inquiris and Alpha 6. Other changes are also seen as Ernie leaves Angel Grove to do volunteer work in South America and Lt. Stone takes over the Juice Bar. Also an ally, the Blue Senturion arrives from the year 2000, with a message for Dimitria and the Rangers that Lord Zedd, Rita Repulsa, The Machine Empire and Divatox will team up to destroy the universe, but fails to show the complete message due to Divatox corrupting the end of it.
Later, Tommy, Adam, Tanya and Katherine Hillard, who are leaving for new chapters of their lives, are asked to pass on their powers to a new group of people. They choose T.J. Johnson, Carlos Vallerte, Ashley Hammond and Cassie Chan as the new Red, Green, Yellow and Pink Rangers respectively with Justin still being the Blue Ranger.  The new team of Rangers are also joined by another ally, the Phantom Ranger, a mysterious being from another world. The team eventually learns that Dark Specter has captured Zordon, though Zordon is able to warn the Rangers not to rescue him as it would leave Earth defenseless. A short while later, the Rangers lose both the Turbo and Rescue Megazords in a battle with Divatox's most powerful monster yet, Goldgoyle. As Dimitria and the Blue Senturion leave for Eltar to help Zordon, Divatox finds the Power Chamber's location. Her army of grunts and monsters infiltrate the Chamber, defeating the team and destroying the Power Chamber. However, before Divatox tries to finish off the Rangers, she receives a message that Zordon has been captured and under the order of Dark Specter leaves for the Cimmerian planet. The powerless Rangers then leave Earth and head for space to save Zordon, with Justin choosing to stay behind with his father. These events lead to the next incarnation of the franchise, Power Rangers in Space.


== Cast and Characters ==


=== Turbo Rangers ===
Original team

Jason David Frank as Tommy Oliver  The First Red Turbo Ranger and leader; previously the Mighty Morphin Green Ranger, the Mighty Morphin White Ranger, and the Red Zeo Ranger. He is Katherine Hillard's love interest. He piloted the Red Lightning Turbozord and his primary weapon was the Turbo Lightning Sword.
Blake Foster as Justin Stewart The Original Blue Turbo Ranger; when Rocky DeSantos injured himself due to training practice, Justin was chosen by Zordon to be his replacement. Justin, however, was 12 years old and the shorter than the other members. So, to compensate for his youth, he was able to morph into an adult-sized form as the Blue Ranger. Justin is the only common member between the first and second team of Turbo Rangers. He piloted the Mountain Blaster Turbozord and the Siren Blaster Rescuezord. His primary weapon was the Turbo Hand Blasters.
Johnny Yong Bosch as Adam ParkThe First Green Turbo Ranger; previously the second Mighty Morphin Black Ranger and the Green Zeo Ranger. He piloted the Desert Thunder Turbozord and his primary weapon was the Turbo Thunder Cannon.
Nakia Burrise as Tanya SloanThe First Yellow Turbo Ranger; formerly the Yellow Zeo Ranger. She piloted the Dune Star Turbozord and her primary weapon was the Turbo Star Chargers.
Catherine Sutherland as Katherine "Kat" HillardThe First Pink Turbo Ranger; previously the second Mighty Morphin Pink Ranger and the Pink Zeo Ranger. She is Tommy Oliver's love interest. She piloted the Wind Chaser Turbozord and her primary weapon was the Turbo Wind Fire.New team

Selwyn Ward as Theodore Jay "T.J." Jarvis JohnsonT.J. is the Second Red Turbo Ranger and new leader. A friendly and warm-hearted baseball player, he was chosen by Tommy to be his replacement based on his bravery in protecting others. He piloted the Red Lightning Turbozord and the Lightning Fire Tamer Rescuezord. His primary weapon is the Turbo Lightning Sword.
Roger Velasco as Carlos VallerteCarlos is the Second Green Turbo Ranger. A proud and determined soccer player, he was chosen by Adam to be his replacement because he proved himself to be decisive and intelligent. He piloted the Desert Thunder Turbozord and the Thunder Loader Rescuezord. His primary weapon is the Turbo Thunder Cannon.
Tracy Lynn Cruz as Ashley HammondAshley is the Second Yellow Turbo Ranger. An upbeat and hardworking cheerleader, she was chosen by Tanya to be her replacement due to her compassion and integrity. She piloted the Dune Star Turbozord and the Star Racer Rescuezord. Her primary weapon is the Turbo Star Chargers.
Patricia Ja Lee as Cassie Chan Cassie is the Second Pink Turbo Ranger. A gutsy and sarcastic singer, she was chosen by Katherine to be her replacement because she is loyal and trustworthy. She piloted the Wind Chaser Turbozord and Wind Rescue Rescuezord. Her primary weapon is the Turbo Wind Fire.


=== Supporting characters ===
Carol Hoyt as DimitriaDimitria is a being from the planet Inquirus who succeeds Zordon as the Turbo Rangers' new mentor as he left for Eltar.
Katerina Luciani as the voice of Alpha 6Alpha 6 is the successor Alpha 5.
David Walsh as the voice of Blue SenturionAn intergalactic police officer from the future.
Paul Schrier and Jason Narvy as Bulk and SkullInitially turned into chimpanzees by Elgar, they are later restored and take on a series of odd jobs.
Gregg Bullock as Jerome B. StoneWhen Ernie's peace corps recalled him to help "build a bridge in the Amazon," Jerome became the new proprietor of the Angel Grove Youth Center.
Alex Dodd as the Phantom RangerA mysterious Ranger whose powers come from Eltar.


=== Villains ===
Carol Hoyt (episodes 1–25) and Hilary Shepard Turner (episodes 26–45) as DivatoxThe series' main villain and is known throughout the universe as the Queen of Evil, Dark Queen of Space and the  Beautiful Queen of Darkness. Divatox is an intergalactic space pirate who leads a large number of cutthroats in her evil conquests throughout the universe. From her base, the gigantic fish-shaped submarine known as the Subcraft, Divatox and her minions travel about the universe plundering riches to satisfy Divatox's greed. Divatox would later pilot the eagle-like Eaglezord.
Derek Stephen Prince as the voice of ElgarDivatox's dimwitted nephew who was armed with the Card Sword, named as such due to the blade looking like a row of playing cards. Elgar could fire blasts of energy from the sword, as well as teleport. He was also the one responsible for turning Bulk and Skull into chimpanzees during the earlier part of the series. Elgar would later pilot the Terrorzord.
Lex Lang as the voice of RygogThe mutant servant of Divatox. He serves as her loyal warrior and able to fire lasers from his eyes. Rygog later pilots the golden lion-themed Catzord.
Scott Page-Pagter as the voice of Porto An alien resembling a life raft with portholes in it that has limbs, with one showing his goggle-wearing face. Porto is Divatox's top adviser. He would later pilot the blue shark-themed Sharkzord.
Richard Cansino and Tom Wyner (episode 26 only) as the voice of General HavocDivatox's brother, as well as the uncle of Elgar. Three times in his fight with the Rangers, General Havoc piloted the dinosaur-like Metallosaurus.


=== Guest stars ===
Steve Cardenas as Rocky DeSantos; the former Mighty Morphin Red Ranger and Blue Zeo Ranger.
Robert L. Manahan as the voice of Zordon
Richard Steven Horvitz as the voice of Alpha 5
Lex Lang (uncredited) as the voice of Lerigot
Carol White as Mama D, Divatox's mother


== Film ==


== Episodes ==


== Comics ==
In 1997, Acclaim Comics published three one-shots based on Power Rangers Turbo. The first book was Power Rangers Turbo vs. Beetleborgs Metallix, featuring a crossover with the Saban-produced Beetleborgs.  The other two were part of the Saban Powerhouse books called Power Rangers Turbo: Into The Fire & Other Stories and Power Rangers Turbo: Simple Simon Says & Other Stories.
In 2018, Boom! Studios published a back-up serial by Ryan Ferrier and Bachan in Mighty Morphin Power Rangers #25–36. It featured a team-up between the Blue Senturion and Ninjor.


== International Broadcasts & Home media ==
In 2012, Shout Factory announced that it had reached an exclusive distribution deal with Saban for shows such as Power Rangers and Big Bad Beetleborgs. Power Rangers Turbo was released on DVD in August 2012, as part of a Time-Life exclusive boxed set containing seasons 1–7. The show later became available independently of the boxed set in two volumes, the first volume consisting of first 23 episodes was released on April 1, 2014 and the second volume containing the remaining 22 episodes was released on June 3, 2014.
International releases for Carranger were limited to a few Asian regions, as most regions around the world (including Philippines) would receive foreign language dubs of the U.S. adaptation based on this series, which was Power Rangers Turbo. Although, Japan aired a Japanese dub of the series from September 1999 to February 14, 2000, on the Super Channel. All 45 episodes were covered. Turbo: A Power Rangers Movie movie aired with a Japanese dub on TV on August 2, 1999 prior.
In Thailand, the series aired on Channel 9 with a Thai dub, produced by Na Toi Se and aired in 2000, a year after Power Rangers Turbo was also aired. Various distributors released the series on home video (specifically VCD and DVD), while the same dub was carried over.
In the Philippines, this series airs on ABS-CBN as Power Rangers Turbo. however the pilot episode airs as Turbo: A Power Rangers Movie.
In Indonesia, the series aired with an Indonesian dub on RCTI in 2005.
In North America, the series would receive a DVD release by Shout! Factory on April 25, 2017, in the original Japanese audio with English subtitles. It is the fifth Super Sentai series to be officially released in the region.


== Notes ==


== References ==


== External links ==
Official website
"Turbo: A Power Rangers Movie at Fox Kids (Archive)
Power Rangers Turbo at IMDb