Power Rangers Operation Overdrive is the fifteenth season of the television franchise Power Rangers. The season uses footage and other material from the 30th Super Sentai series GoGo Sentai Boukenger, which celebrates the thirtieth anniversary of that franchise. In addition, this season's team-up episode, "Once a Ranger", commemorates the fifteenth anniversary of the Power Rangers franchise. The season premiered on February 26, 2007, on Toon Disney's Jetix programming block. It was the first season to use high definition footage from the Super Sentai franchise, although this footage was scaled down to 4:3 aspect ratio.
Unique among Power Ranger series, Operation Overdrive has the Rangers exploring, operating and fighting in many different countries around the world, rather than focusing only on their home city of San Angeles.


== Pre-production ==
The early working title for the series was Power Rangers Drive Force, but was later changed to "Relic Hunters" and then "Operation Overdrive"In early pre-production, on July 26, 2006, the series' logo was posted on a fan message board called "Fuñaroboard." This same logo was later featured on the Disney website, RangerSecrets.com, as part of the preview for the series. The logo is very similar to that of the parent series Boukenger in the basic design and format.
On November 14, 2006, Disney had set up its official website for Power Rangers Operation Overdrive.


== Synopsis ==
Five brave, skilled, and adventurous individuals -Mack Hartford, Will Aston, Dax Lo, Ronny Robinson, and Rose Ortiz - are chosen and genetically enhanced by billionaire adventurer and Mack's father Andrew Hartford to become Power Rangers and travel the globe to find five magical jewels that were taken from a powerful artifact called the Corona Aurora before two villainous brothers, Flurious and Moltor, can. Along the way, the Rangers encounter two additional villainous factions, Kamdor and the Fearcats, and are joined by an alien named Tyzonn.


== Cast and characters ==
Overdrive Rangers
James Maclurcan as Mackenzie "Mack" Hartford; The Red Overdrive Ranger.
Samuell Benta as William "Will" Aston; The Black Overdrive Ranger.
Gareth Yuen as Dax Lo; The Blue Overdrive Ranger.
Caitlin Murphy as Veronica "Ronny" Robinson; The Yellow Overdrive Ranger.
Rhoda Montemayor as Rose Ortiz; The Pink Overdrive Ranger.
Dwayne Cameron as Tyzonn; The Mercury Ranger.Supporting characters

Rod Lousich as Andrew Hartford, the Rangers' mentor and Mack's father.
David Weatherley as Spencer.
Campbell Cooley as the voice of Alpha 6.
Nic Sampson as the voice of the Sentinel Knight.
Beth Allen as Vella.Villains

Gerald Urquhart as Flurious.
Mark Ferguson as the voice of Moltor.
Ria Vandervis as Miratrix.
Adam Gardiner as the voice of Kamdor.
James Gaylyn as the voice of Cheetar.
Lori Dungey as the voice of Crazar.
David Weatherley as the voice of Benglo.
Kelson Henderson as Norg and the voice of Mig.
Glen Levy as the voice of Thrax.Guest stars

Johnny Yong Bosch as Adam Park; the second Black Ranger, and previously the Black Ninja Ranger, Green Zeo Ranger and the first Green Turbo Ranger.
Sally Martin as Tori Hanson; the Blue Wind Ranger.
Emma Lahana as Kira Ford; the Yellow Dino Thunder Ranger.
Matt Austin as Bridge Carson; the third S.P.D. Red Ranger, following a promotion at S.P.D.
Richard Brancatisano as Xander Bly; the Green Mystic Force Ranger.


== Episodes ==


== International Broadcasts & Home Media ==
This series was limited to only airing in other Asian regions, as most around the world have aired the Power Rangers adaptation, Power Rangers Operation Overdrive instead.
In South Korea, the series aired with a Korean dub in 2007, under Power Rangers Treasure Force. (파워레인저 트레저포스)
In Thailand, the series was aired with a Thai dub with license rights by Rose Media Entertainment. It originally aired on Channel 5 and also the Gang Cartoon Channel starting from October 11, 2008 until 2009. Toon Town Entertainment also held the distribution rights to license the series to air on the True Spark channel on TrueVisions, while still using the same Thai dub and aired earlier from August 14 till October 21, 2008. It was also released on home video.
In the Philippines, this series aired on ABS-CBN from 2009 until 2010 with Tagalog dub.
In the Chinese-speaking world, Both Mandarin (Taiwan dialect) and Cantonese dubs were produced and aired in Taiwan and Hong Kong respectively.
In Taiwan, the series aired with a Taiwanese Mandarin dub on November 23, 2008 until October 25, 2009 with all episodes dubbed, airing on GTV.
In Hong Kong, the series aired with a Cantonese Chinese dub on March 15, 2009 (a few months after Taiwan aired the Taiwanese Mandarin dub) on TVB Jade until March 7, 2010 with all episodes dubbed.


== References ==


== External links ==

Official Power Rangers Website
Power Rangers Operation Overdrive - Blue Sapphire Volume 3
Power Rangers Operation Overdrive at IMDb