Transformers One is an upcoming American animated science fiction action film based on the Transformers toyline by Hasbro. Serving as the eighth installment in the Transformers film series, the film is directed by Josh Cooley and written by Andrew Barrer, Gabriel Ferrari, and Steve Desmond. The ensemble voice cast includes Chris Hemsworth, Brian Tyree Henry, Scarlett Johansson, Keegan-Michael Key, Jon Hamm, and Laurence Fishburne. The film is described as an "origin story" set on the planet Cybertron and will center on the relationship between Optimus Prime and Megatron.
In March 2015, following the release of Transformers: Age of Extinction (2014), Paramount Pictures tasked Akiva Goldsman with working with Michael Bay, Steven Spielberg, and Lorenzo di Bonaventura to set up a writer's room to create ideas for potential future Transformers films. By May, Barrer and Ferrari had joined the writer's room, and one of the ideas that came from there was an animated prequel that would be set on Cybertron. The film was announced in August 2017, and by April 2020, Cooley had been hired to direct. The title and voice cast were revealed in April 2023, while Industrial Light & Magic provided animation.
Transformers One is scheduled to be theatrically released in the United States on September 13, 2024, by Paramount Pictures.


== Premise ==
Described as an "origin story" set on the planet Cybertron, the film will center on the relationship between Optimus Prime and Megatron going from brothers-in-arms to enemies.


== Voice cast ==

Chris Hemsworth as Orion Pax / Optimus Prime
Brian Tyree Henry as D-16 / Megatron
Scarlett Johansson as Elita
Keegan-Michael Key as Bumblebee
Jon Hamm as Sentinel Prime
Laurence Fishburne as Alpha Trion


== Production ==


=== Development ===
Following the release of Transformers: Age of Extinction (2014), Paramount Pictures tasked Akiva Goldsman, who would later serve as a co-story writer for Transformers: The Last Knight (2017), in March 2015 to work with the film franchise's director, Michael Bay, executive producer, Steven Spielberg, and producer, Lorenzo di Bonaventura, in setting up a "writer's room" to create ideas for potential future Transformers films and spinoff films. After setting up the writer's room, multiple writers were hired to write future installments in the franchise. According to Goldsman, the team would look at various Transformers media created by Hasbro for inspiration; if they found one that interested them, they could submit a treatment, which would then be further developed by the whole team. In late May, Andrew Barrer, and Gabriel Ferrari had joined the writer's room. According to Deadline Hollywood, one of the ideas that came from the writer's room had the working title of Transformers One, and would serve as an animated prequel focusing on the Autobot–Decepticon conflict that began on Cybertron.In August 2017, it was reported that an animated Transformers film was officially in the works. Following the release of Bumblebee (2018), di Bonaventura discussed the animated film, clarifying that it was "in the works" and would "tell the whole Cybertron mythology", assuring that fans of the franchise would enjoy the film; Bumblebee director Travis Knight additionally expressed interest in the film.In April 2020, it was reported that Josh Cooley had been hired to direct the film and was overseeing the script by Barrer and Ferrari. Hasbro Entertainment and Paramount Animation would produce the film. In February 2022, it emerged that the film would be computer-animated. In December 2022, the title was reported to be Transformers: A New Generation, though di Bonaventura later stated in April 2023 that the title had yet to be finalized. Later that month, at CinemaCon, the title was officially confirmed as Transformers One. di Bonaventura stated that the plot will center around the origins of the Transformers, and explore the events that lead Optimus and Megatron to go from being brothers-in-arms to becoming enemies. In June, Steve Desmond was revealed to be a writer on the film.


=== Casting ===
The voice cast of the film was announced at CinemaCon in April 2023, consisting of Chris Hemsworth and Brian Tyree Henry as younger versions of Optimus Prime and Megatron respectively, alongside Scarlett Johansson, Keegan-Michael Key, Jon Hamm, and Laurence Fishburne headlining.

Transformers One marks Hemsworth's first animated feature film. The actor had joined the project after being impressed with the screenplay. Hemsworth made efforts to not use his regular speaking voice for Optimus Prime. In contrast, Key, per the request of Cooley, stayed closer to his regular speaking voice for Bumblebee.


=== Animation ===
Industrial Light & Magic, who had provided the visual effects for the prior live-action Transformers installments, returned to provide the animation for the film. The film was in post-production by February 2024.


== Release ==
Transformers One is scheduled to be theatrically released in the United States on September 13, 2024, by Paramount Pictures. It was originally scheduled for a July 19, 2024 release.


== Future ==
In April 2023, di Bonaventura stated that there is discussion for Transformers One to become a trilogy of films. By June, he confirmed that the story is mapped out to progress over three movies, detailing the progression of the characters into their depiction in the live-action film series. The producer explained that Hemsworth's depiction will grow into the leader depicted in the previous installments, stating that the transition from Hemsworth's voice to Peter Cullen's will make sense within the story.


== References ==


== External links ==
Transformers One at IMDb